in this video,
we're going to discuss the if then else if structure,
so the if then else.
If structure allows you to test not only one condition as we've seen before on the if,
then else and the simple if statement.
But actually it allows you to test multiple conditions and have multiple codes that were
result from any of these conditions being true,
you can add as many conditions as you like using the else if statement so basically,
the structure of the if then else if is basically if a condition is equal to true,
which is normal,
if you know you're gonna have some code resulting from that and then you're going to write
an else if then else if and then you're gonna put a condition.
And this else if condition just says that there is a condition is just a normal condition,
it's nothing special.
And then you're gonna test that this condition is equal to true,
and then you're gonna put it then and then you're gonna have some code that is going to be
executed in that condition is true.
You can also put another else if with another condition here,
testing that is true.
And if their condition is true,
you're gonna execute another set of code and you can put any number of else of statements.
And so here we've got else.
If else of condition and an end means that you can put any number of else of statements,
you could put first else if statement another else if statement 1/3 1 or fourth when you
can put any number of else of statements and test any number of conditions.
And if any of them is true than the code corresponding to that condition,
or the code under that condition is going to be executed and you can also put in else and
the else here gets executed if none of the conditions none of the conditions for the if or
the else if is true,
if that's the case than whatever code under the else gets executed and the else here is
actually optional,
so you can have and if then else if without having the else part,
here's okay so this can be deleted.
This is optional,
and you need to make sure to put an end.
If,
of course,
so the if then else if structure allows you to put any number of conditions that you like
and you can also put in else.
And this else gets executed if none of the conditions tested is true.
And please note that if any of the conditions tested is true,
BB A will jump to the end F statement after executing its code.
So,
for example,
if we're testing conditions and the conditions for the first else,
if statement is true,
what will happen is that else if Code one is going to be executed and then vb a will jump
straight to the end if statement and execute any coat after,
it will not test the rest of the conditions.
Okay,
so once a condition is found to be true,
VB a exits the if then else structure and goes to the end if and execute any code after it
.
Okay,
so let's have an example for the if then else if structure Okay,
guys.
So now we're gonna have an example for the if then else if statement.
So,
basically,
we've got a very simple example.
You get here,
Selby,
18 having a value and we've got and if then else,
if structure here that I've written.
And basically this structure tests the value in Selby Eighteens on the first line here on
the if condition is gonna test if it is a one and if it's found to be true than is going to
play a message box that says one,
if it's not true,
then is gonna go on and test on the on this else.
If line here is gonna test if it's a two on effects,
the case exists.
Going to display a message,
Boxes says to,
However,
if it does not find it to be true,
is gonna test using the second else.
If here,
if the value is three and if that's the case,
is gonna display three.
And if it's not three is gonna just if it's a four and if it is,
then it's gonna explain message boxes.
Since for if not,
then it's just gonna execute the else which is gonna have a message box saying other value
.
So let's step through the code step by step.
Currently,
the value is a one social press F eight on your keyboard and start stepping through the
code here is gonna test here if the values one and it's gonna be true.
So we're going to display a message box that says one and then note Howard actually jumped
straight away to the end.
If line of code here because when it finds the certain condition is true,
it doesn't test the other conditions.
It actually jumps straight away to the end if and starts executing any code after the end.
If statement,
if we put it to here and test it so basically it's gonna test if the values of one it's not
gonna be a one is gonna test if it's to using this else if condition here and if that's the
case,
yes,
it is,
is going to display a message box to and then it jumps straight away to And if and if we
actually put a five in here,
which is not equivalent to any of the conditions that are gonna be tested,
you're going to see here that is gonna test older conditions,
and it's gonna find them to be fools.
So it's gonna execute actually,
the else statement here and it's gonna display a message.
Boxes says other value.
Also,
I want to show you the part.
When I told you that the else statement is actually optional.
So I want to run the code without the else statement.
And you can see here that the value here in Selby 18 is a five,
so it's not gonna meet any of these conditions.
So what's gonna happen in that case is that it's gonna testable conditions and is gonna
find them to be fulls.
So it's gonna end if it's gonna go to the end if statement,
because there is no else.
And then it's gonna execute anything after the if statement.
So in that case,
we did not take any action based on any of the conditions because none of the conditions
were true.
Okay,
So sick guys for the F than else if structure Thank you very much for watching this video.
I know.
See on the next one.